---
layout: post
title: "Quick Post: Some Good News"
date: 2020-09-01
---

Hi! This here is what I'm going to start calling "quick posts": just sharing
some things I've found interesting lately with a minimal amount of commentary.
Enjoy!

### "Africa Declared Free from Polio", from _Nature_ ###
[link](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-02501-3?utm_source=Nature+Briefing&utm_campaign=a0e94d745b-briefing-dy-20200901&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_c9dfd39373-a0e94d745b-44568457)

The polio vaccine was probably the first example of a vaccine that I was taught
about in a history class. The African continent being officially declared free
of the wild poliovirus is a huge step forward and an awesome piece of news for
the inbox inundated with less fortunate virus news. 

There's some fascinating bioethics that was involved in the process as mentioned
in the article. There's been a lot of thought lately about how different
cultures handle public health, related to perceptions of authority,
communication modalities, and dozens of other sociological concepts. I
definitely want to learn more about how the practice of medicine depends on
scale and community.

One last thought: one of the mentioned barriers to eradication was attitudes
towards vaccinations. Interestingly enough, the form of polio still left in most
of the world is vaccine-derived, the result of oral-drop vaccines containing
weakened strains mutating in the body and resulting in illness. The solution to
this is more widespread immunization, which is awfully counterintuitive. I
wonder if there will be lessons to be learned from the fight against polio to
apply to the eventual coronavirus vaccine drive.

### The mosquito strategy that could eliminate dengue, from _Nature_ ###
[link](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-02492-1?utm_source=Nature+Briefing&utm_campaign=a0e94d745b-briefing-dy-20200901&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_c9dfd39373-a0e94d745b-44568457)

This is just super cool. Researchers interested in dengue fever started working
in the 90's on creating mosquito populations which carry a bacteria that
prevents the spread of viruses including dengue virus. There have been a variety
of studies and tests done before, but a study begun in Indonesia in 2016 has
just wrapped up and published results that show an incredible reduction in
dengue fever as a result of releasing these mosquitos in cities. The data is as
yet unpublished, and while there is still much to be discovered from the study
many epidemiologists are extremely excited about the potential of the technique.
Some economists have said it will pay for itself from reduced healthcare costs
and avoided lost working hours as a result of infection. The WHO still needs to
reccomend the intervention, but lots of people have high hopes, and now some of
the evidence to justify it.
