---
layout: post
title: "RE:COVID-19: We can't just \"go back to normal\""
date: 2020-09-09
---
### Foreword ###
There are a handful of phrases we're hearing quite a bit lately: "the new
normal", "unprecedented times", and so on and so forth. What these all too often
imply is that there is a "normal" we are going back to eventually; that we'll
all get together once this corona thing is over; that there's some day coming up
when "things go back to normal". I've caught myself using a myriad of all of
those.

At best, that's all reflections of magical thinking. At worst, it'll lead to
painfully extended dysfunction as we continue plodding along the "new normal".

### From a Student's Perspective ###
Practically all US Universities sent their students home last spring at the
start of what many have taken to calling "lockdown". As we've come slowly back,
many have dragged their feet on planning for the fall semester. My university
has no definite plans communicated yet as to what's going on in the spring, and
there's a constant feeling that we'll all get sent packing any day. We've all
gotten used to postponing decisions, but also, cancelling plans. University-run
events I was supposed to participate in have been put off indefinitely, with no
replacement. My fraternity, both at a local and national level, has been
released of many obligations, but with no replacement programming or
expectations on how to conduct the organization right now. The same seems to be
true of many teams, clubs, and campuses.

From a student's perspective, we're on a sort of societal low power mode. Only
those deemed 'essential' are allowed (or from a different perspective, required)
to continue showing up. We're all still taking classes, but with few to none of
the other parts of college life. Oftentimes, the focus is not on what can be
done correctly, but instead on what could be done that's wrong. Another student
in one of my in-person classes remarked that they're anxious walking around the
campus, afraid of touching the wrong surface or using the wrong entrance. 

The culmination of these trends indicates the prevailing thought that this is
somehow temporary. We'll eventually go back to 'business as usual', but we don't
know when that is -- so making plans on a normal schedule is foolhardy, only
what must go on is adapted to our current environment, and anything else gets
cancelled. If we do everything right, whatever that may mean, we'll get there
sooner. Every day until then is the result of some idiot messing up, an easy
scapegoat like partying college students or people going to bars or the
political party you don't like.

### A Reality Check ###

Here's a telling infographic published in _Nature_:

![nature infographic](/assets/nature_projections.png)

Even the best of those scenarios doesn't see COVID-19 disappearing from our
lives any time soon. Even with the production of a vaccine, which is at minimum
months in the waiting, manufacturing and distributing it will take months more.
After that, millions of Americans will refuse the vaccine.
To borrow a metaphor from Lindsay Wiley, a professor of public health law at
American University, quoted in _The Atlantic_, the pandemic is not controlled by
a light switch, but instead a variety of dials of societal control. 

I don't want to delve into discussing particulars of modeling the disease or
public health policy here; nor do I want to attempt to break down the American
response to the pandemic, as Ed Yong already did a beautiful job of in the
previously mentioned [Atlantic
article](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2020/09/pandemic-intuition-nightmare-spiral-winter/616204/).
All I hope to accomplish with this post is to air frustrations with the way
systemic responses to the pandemic have crippled those systems that I interact
with and rely on daily. I'm tired of being told next to nothing about the very
near reality of next semester. I'm tired of standards being lowered while
responsibilities and anxieties remain high. I'm tired of living in the false
dichotomy of "old normal" and "new normal". Hopefully, enough decision-makers
will pull their heads out of the sand soon for us to move on 
